Is 'Follow Your Passion' Realistic Career Advice?
A friend of mine called the other day, panicked that change was underway at her office and that she was about to be laid off. “I really don’t know what I would do,” she said. “I’d be so, so screwed.”

I started talking her through a few possible action steps, which got me thinking about my time working in PR and events. One of our department’s to-dos was to create and maintain an “emergency plan:” Basically, if there was ever a crisis — a fire or earthquake (welcome to LA), a health scare, even a last-minute change in an event venue or speaker — we had everything in place to launch into action in an organized, streamlined way. We updated it quarterly, and while we always thought doing it was a pain, it was an absolute lifesaver when we needed it.

The same kind of preparation, I think, is incredibly valuable for your career. A crisis, like being let go or having your company go under, isn't something you ever want to think about, but if it happened, wouldn't you rather have a ready-to-go action plan than be running around like a crazy person trying to get anyone to hire you?

That’s what I thought. So, take a cue from my old PR playbook, and start creating your own Career Emergency Plan. Here’s what you’ll need.

An Updated Resume and LinkedIn Profile

I know — updating your resume isn't fun when you are looking for a job, so when you’re not, it’s easy to push it aside. But there are plenty of good reasons to keep it updated all the time, not the least of which is that it’ll be ready to go should the worst happen. (Here are a few more.)

A great way to do this is to set aside a half hour each quarter or so to update your accomplishments and skills. If you get great client feedback, finish an awesome project, or hit a big goal, file it away in a “brag folder” in your inbox or desktop, and you’ll have an easy place to turn to when you need to make updates.

An Ongoing List of Dream Companies

When it comes to job hunting, we always recommend quality (honing in on a few companies you know will make you happy) versus quantity (sending your resume to every opening that’s remotely related to what you do). So, it’s a good idea to start compiling your list of dream companies long before you need to. Create a spreadsheet with your favorite companies, their websites, any contacts you have there, and—time-saver alert—links to their jobs pages. Or, for an even easier step, start favoriting some of your top companies on The Muse.

A Ready-to-Send Email

One of the most effective job-hunting techniques on the planet is to enlist your network in your search, telling them exactly what you’re looking for and making it easy for them to pass along your resume and opportunities. Especially if you've been let go from a job, your friends and contacts are bound to go out of their way to help you — you just have to tell them what you need.

So, have some sort of email ready to blast off to anyone willing to help in the event of an emergency. For some ideas on exactly how to do this, check out “How Some Friends and a Simple Spreadsheet Helped Me Land My Dream Job” and “Help Me Find a Job’ Emails to Send to Your Network.”

Basically, you’ll want to have a rough template ready, so if the time comes, you can just update the copy and click “send.” Of course, for this strategy to be effective, it requires that you also have:

A Regularly Managed Network

You can’t just drop out of the blue and ask your contacts to help you (well, you can, but you probably wouldn't get great results). So, if you haven’t already, make it a priority to keep up with your network. Make sure you’re connected to everyone you know professionally on LinkedIn, or keep a separate contacts group or spreadsheet with your top contacts.

And stay in touch! Make it a point to reach out to your contacts periodically, even if it’s small things, like retweeting their work, complimenting them on a great article or recent promotion, or inviting them to coffee or drinks now and then. (Here are a few more ideas.) At minimum, make a list of the 10-15 people who could be most helpful in your potential job search, and prioritize keeping up relationships with them.

A Cubicle Exit Plan

I've seen people be “restructured out of positions” — with instructions to vacate the premises on the same day. Not exactly ideal if you have two years’ worth of files, documents, work samples, and photos saved to your work computer.

So, make a point to, quarterly, collect anything you’d want to keep — work samples, important contacts saved in your work phone, processes or documents you've created—and back them up on a personal computer.

A Plan B

Ever thought about consulting, freelancing, or selling refurbished antiques on Etsy? You might not have time for it now, but it’s worth putting together a plan of what that would look like — the services or products you’d offer, the rough pricing, how you’d market yourself to prospective clients. Especially if you’re in a higher-level or very specialized role, this can be a great alternative while you’re looking for that next big full-time thing. Or not—you may find that entrepreneurship is the path for you! On that note, perhaps the most important step is to know:

Your Career Non-Negotiables

Ask anyone who’s been laid off: It’s easy to panic and be tempted to take the first job that comes along. And ask anyone who’s done that: At best, you won’t love it, and at worst, you’ll be job-hunting again in six months.

So, it’s worth going through the process of identifying your career non-negotiables — what you absolutely must have in a job — so that you’re not tempted to jump into something that’s not right. Here’s how to do it.

No one wants to plan for the worst (believe me, creating and maintaining a comprehensive phone tree for everyone in the organization was not my favorite part of the job). But it does happen, and the best way you can prevent it from keeping you down is to have a plan of action. Spend an hour or so every quarter getting your ducks in a row, and you’ll feel prepared no matter what punches get thrown your way.
The Best Use of Office Supplies We've Ever Seen
13 Ways the Busiest People Ever Avoid Burnout 
6 Easy Ways to Whip Your Finances Into Shape
Pleasantly Persistent: 5 Rules for Effectively Following Up

This article originally published at The Muse here Networking is a skill that's critical for career advancement. While talking to strangers and approaching new people are challenging for most people, those tasks can be especially difficult for introverts.

Jacqueline Whitmore, an etiquette expert and author of "Poised for Success: Mastering The Four Qualities That Distinguish Outstanding Professionals" (St. Martin's Press, 2011), said that networking can be challenging for introverts because they are often better at listening than they are at making conversation with strangers.

"Introverts tend to do well in smaller, more intimate settings, where they know one or more people," Whitmore told Business News Daily. "They can still be great networkers by listening and being inquisitive."


SEE ALSO: 7 Deadly Sins of Networking

To help introverts improve their networking skills, Whitmore offered several tips:

Temper expectations: Introverts shouldn't set unrealistic expectations for how many connections they need to make. Networking isn't a numbers game, and it's more about quality than quantity, Whitmore said.


Plan ahead: It is important for introverts to prepare for their networking events. Whitmore suggested thinking of some good icebreakers, such as open-ended questions that can spur conversation. For instance, you could ask, "What's your favorite part of your job?"


Set a departure time: Choosing when you'll leave a networking event ahead of time often makes the situation far less intimidating. Whitmore said that, many times, introverts will get comfortable in the environment quickly and stay longer than they anticipated.


Use mutual contacts: If there is a specific person you want to meet, find a common connection, to see if they can introduce you. Whitmore said that rather than just approaching someone out of the blue, finding mutual acquaintances helps make a stronger relationship.


Use your listening skills: Introverts often have a leg up on others at networking events because they are usually such good listeners. Those listening skills often help introverts stand out as people who value others, which can give event attendees more of a reason to remember them, Whitmore said.


Get personal: Whitmore said that asking multiple questions without ever sharing any information about yourself can make people feel as if they're being interrogated. Conversations should be a two-way street. She advises introverts to share personal information about themselves as a way to help others remember them once the event is over.


Practice: Introverts who are nervous about networking should challenge themselves with no-risk or low-risk situations. Whitmore encouraged them to drive to an event in a town other than their own, where they won't know anyone, as a way to practice their networking skills. She said this provides them with an opportunity to experiment with new conversations or stories.


Take baby steps: Not all networking needs to take place at a specific "networking" event. Whitmore advised introverts to take advantage of everyday situations, such as casually socializing with colleagues around the office or inviting a different co-worker to lunch each week.

14 Video Surveillance Systems for Small Businesses
For Job Creation, Technology Is a Give and Take Proposition
Should You Skip College to Start a Business?
Top 6 Chrome Browser Extensions for Business

This article originally published at BusinessNewsDaily here This question originally appeared on Quora.

What are some examples of bad, outdated or counterproductive career advice? What types of advice no longer apply to today's job market, or could have an adverse effect on productivity in the long-term?

Answer by Colin Shillingford, creative entrepreneur.

I spotted a great video lecture on 99U that happens to touch on the topic: Cal Newport: "Follow Your Passion" Is Bad Advice.



.

Below is a quote directly from the lecture:


"American culture is obsessed with the idea that we need to find our 'passion' in order to be happy and successful. But there’s a problem: 'It’s an astonishingly bad piece of advice,' says best-selling author Cal Newport. We have no pre-existing passion. Instead, passion is found by first building a rare and valuable talent and using it to take control of your career path. In other words, be so good and work so hard that no one can ignore you."

I have to say that I wholeheartedly agree with Mr. Newport. I've been realizing more and more lately what having a passion really means. As passionate as most of us are about many things in our lives, relying on that alone will not advance us in our careers.

Instead, passion should be a by-product of working toward the pursuit of a skill (or skill set), in my opinion.

Telling people to follow their passions (without any other advice or guidance) simply sends them on a dream chase, which may be more harmful to their careers in the long-term.  

 
Passion is a great thing to have, but must be accompanied by determination, creativity, talent and strategy Passion is a great thing to have, but must be accompanied by determination, creativity, talent and strategy in order to help someone establish a suitable career path.

Speaking from personal experience, not all of the things I am passionate about are things that I should pursue as a career. One should carefully research a profession before considering a transition into that type of role, because some work seems glamorous or appealing until you are doing it day in and day out.

Most people will need mentors, guidance, coaching, experience and support before they can turn a passion into a career.

I strongly suggest finding a mentor before pursuing a new career; that way you can get a glimpse into the industry and all of the related activities before you decide that it's right for you.

Following your passion is not a bad thing, by any means. In fact, it is very important to be passionate about the career path you are pursuing and the things you love doing for income. Advising others to follow their passions without elaborating or giving them the tools or guidance to do so is the issue I am addressing here.

More Q&A on Quora:

What are some best examples of general programming advice?


What are some ways to make a brilliant but somewhat lazy person work hard?


How do you use social media with your job search?


Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.

Mashable Job Board Listings

The Mashable Job Board connects job seekers across the U.S. with unique career opportunities in the digital space. While we publish a wide range of job listings, we have selected a few job opportunities from the past several weeks to help get you started. Happy hunting!

Python / MySQL Developer at BusinessOnline in San Diego, California


Sr. iOS Engineer at American Express in New York, New York


Web Developer at Brighton Agency, Inc. in Saint Louis, Missouri